So welcome to Finishing
Off Part 1! We are pretty much at the end of the section. That doesn't mean that it's the end of the develompment
of this game, by the way. What I'm going to be encouraging you to do is to revisit this game,
once you have done the next section, and then, you're going to back
apply all the knowledge. In fact, in a moment, I'm going to be challenging you to do that with Building Escape, too!
But this video is about fixing a few things up. A StartingHealth bug will
be gone, by the end of it, and also, we will be able to
arrange that the AI tank stops firing back at us, once
we've killed him, which seems only fair, and that once we're dead we will
also not be able to control our tank, we'll go into a spectator mode. In fact, if I wait
one more second, you'll be able to see that. There you go! So I kind of
depossessed and I'm floating around the world as a ghost! I'm watching my poor
old tank being dead. So I will see you in there!
So I'm going to throw you straight into a series of challenges,
with this video, and then, I'm going to clarify some of them as we go. So
I don't know how you got on in the last video, whether you got as far as getting the Delegation
through to the PlayerController, when the tank dies. But if you didn't, then
I'd like you to finish that off, do exactly the same as we did in the AIController,
and call a method called StartSpectatingOnly(),
inside the PlayerController's Delegate, whatever you choose, so when the tank dies
the PlayerController starts SpectatingOnly.
Also, inside the AIController that we did get as far, if you remember, as
writing a log entry for it. Let's just take a look for context! It was
here, we just said ("Received"), so instead of that, let's use the Detach
FromControllerPendingDestroy() method. Look that up, see
what you need to call it on, etc. and use that method. And that's going to prevent the
tank from driving, once it's been destroyed. Another thing, fix
starting health bug! This is a very varied challenge for you, as we're nearing
the end of the section here. So let me show you the starting health bug first and then you can
fix it. So if you look at your Tank and you go in and you choose a different
Starting Health of say 300 and you compile your blueprint, what you would hope
is that it would work. So next up, fix the starting health bug.
If we go over to our Tank
and open up the blueprint, you'll find that if
you adjust the starting health value, on the tank blueprint,
that we get a problem. Let me show you! So we go here!
Say 250 or 350, it doesn't matter, anything but 100, and we
play the game, look those tanks are starting without full health! So that needs sorting
out, otherwise we're not going to be able to override the Starting Health. See if you can work up what's going on
there. Use the noise landscape function
to undulate it. Let me just show you that! So if we go back to Modes and then
Landscape and then Sculpt, you'll find here you've got a Noise method. Set yourself
some appropriate parameters and just make the ground a little bit more
undulating than it is right now. It's very flat and boring, make sure there's no really flat areas.
Let's have it much more organic. And while you're there, you're probably going to want
to be increasing the size of your Navmesh here, if it's not
already covering the whole terrain. And if you want another
challenge, then make the AutoMortars damageable! Put some AutoMortars back in the scene
and make them damageable in exactly the same way as we did the tank! And
finally, check your code against Unreal's coding standards. Now if you're going to do that, only
read down in their standards as far, I would suggest, as the end of
Comments, because otherwise it's too much to take on at this stage of the course, to take
all this on in one go. It's too much to remember. But let's try and make sure that your code and the
code we've written together is complying with these standards, all the way down to the end of Comments
and that you understand the standards down to there. That's it
really, you don't need to do all of those. This is, I'm going to go through and solve all of
these things, as the solution. But that is the challenge! There you go!
So pause the video, have a go at one or many of those, right now, and I'll
see you for the solutions!
OK welcome back! So I'm going to do solution number 2 first! I'm going
to use this DetachFromControllerPendingDestroy() inside the AI tank,
and the reason I'm going to do that, first, is because we're already there, we're just sitting there ready to go!
So what do we need to do? How does this DetachFromController
PendingDestroy? So what I hope you did is, "controller
pendingdestroy".
Take a look on the web, find out what it's all about, get as much documentation as you
can about it, and you can see that it's a method on Pawn. So
we're going to need to get hold of the Pawn, as the first port of call in this.
So here we are, inside the OnPossessedTankDeath() method of the TankAI
Controller. And what we're going to want to do is say, if not (!ensure
(GetPawn())).
so the first thing we want to do is ensure that we have a pawn. In fact,
because this could only go wrong at runtime, we probably don't even
want an ensure in there. So just if not (!GetPawn()), because we
don't want an assertion firing off at runtime, when the player is running
the game. What you can do is put ensure in
for now, make sure that it works, and then, put yourself
a note to remove it. That's one good way of doing things, but think carefully before leaving
ensure in your final production code. "//TODO remove
if ok". OK, so if not GetPawn
then we need to return. I'm going to check my bracket matching. Remember you can click
on a bracket to see what its partner is. And actually, that is the appropriate number of brackets, it
looks like a lot. So we need to make sure we've got a Pawn, and once we've got a Pawn, it's pretty easy! We can
go ahead and just Get the Pawn again. No harm in doing it twice,
it's a very quick operation. And DetachFromControllerPendingDestroy.
Great! OK, so that is the implementation
of that method! Let's go ahead and compile that, and just make sure that that works
properly, on the AI tank! Let's make sure that once the AI tank is dead
that it does not get
controlled or moved or fired by the AI tank anymore.
So I'm not sure how well the TankDeath is going to work, right now, with this
starting health bug. I think what I'll do, is actually
sort that starting health bug out right at the same time, so that we've got some control over that and we
can wind it down. So what is the starting health bug? It's quite simple, in the Tank.h
we have StartingHealth = 100 and then CurrentHealth
= StartingHealth. Well in this regimen, the currentHealth is always going to equal
100. If we change the StartingHealth in the blueprint it's too late, the CurrentHealth in the
C++ has already been set to 100. So we need to take this Current
Health initialization out of here. So I'm just not going to initialize at all.
I'm going to say "// not initialized" or "Initialized in Begin Play"
OK, because that's
the sensible time to do it. The tank constructor is too soon, trying to do it in here's not going to
work, because the C++ constructor will have run before
the blueprint comes along and overrides the value.
So we need to put the BeginPlay() back in. That's not too difficult, it's void
ATank::BeginPlay(),
and then, you just literally in there say what we were
saying over here, which is CurrentHealth = StartingHealth.
So we give the tank its health at the start. We just need to override
BeginPlay(), because it's not currently there. So that's here.
There we go! Now the health
but should have gone. Let's recompile and we'll just check
the health bug's there. We can give it very low starting health, like well even 20, so that
we can kill it in a single hit, and then, we can test to see that the
AI tank stops firing, once it's dead, so two bugs in one. Looking
at our list, we've got a couple of things checked off, if this works, one is number 2!
That's confusing! Firstly, number 2 and the other one is the StartingHealth,
so we're dealing with 2 and 3 here. Alright, let's go to the Tank, give him a health of just 40,
StartingHealth. Now, the first symptom will be that the health bars are actually full.
We have an ensure assertion failure. What's the
problem here? Let's take a look at that, always take them seriously. We have a barrel
missing somewhere. So "Ensure condition failed" on the "Barrel".
What's the problem? Is the tank blueprint compiling?
Is the barrel being set
in the tank? It does seem to be. I'm
just going to Save and recompile that, clear the logs, and just try again.
OK, so we have the tank
not compiling properly. Let's look at the message logs and have a look down in
the Compiler Log, see if there's anything here. And there isn't, so what could be going
on? In this instance, this is a strange bug isn't it? We've just done something seemingly
simple and innocent, and we've broken our game, nothing's working properly, the
tank's aren't aiming. Well, when you override, and well done if you've spotted
this. You're BeginPlay(), remember to call Super::BeginPlay(),
otherwise we're overriding the method and then interfering with the engine's operation,
and it means the BeginPlay() won't be being called on any of the tanks. So
Super::BeginPlay() needs to go in there! Let's just recap the code, while we compile,
to make good use of that time. In the Tank.h we are just removing
the StartingHealth initialization, we're overriding BeginPlay(),
then we are just simply saying in BeginPlay() CurrentHealth = StartingHealth.
OK, let's take a look, we have a value of 40 there. First
good sign is that our bars are at full height. Now let's fire and hit the enemy tank.
He's got half the health now, that means he is taking 20
damage per hit. Now he's dead! Now, the key will be,
does that AI tank stop firing at me? We could depossess and go and have a butcher's
hook or a look at him and see, but it does look like he is
defunct now. And that's because the AIController is detached from that tank
and it's no longer trying to fire or aim at us. Great! So that solution
is done! What was the other challenge? It was create
StartSpectatingOnly() call method in the PlayerControllerO.K. So
in order to do that, we need to do the same magic on the PlayerController as we
did on the AIController. So you remember what we did? We said, let's subscribe our
local method to the tank's death event. Well we're going to do exactly the same thing
on the TankPlayerController. So let's just do it by analogy. Where did we
do it? We did it in SetPawn, so it's going to be almost
exactly the same work as we did here.
So let's go and copy everything from the TankAIController, for the
moment, being careful because we're going to be bringing across this class name amongst other
things. But let's copy that, because it's a good starting point. Pop over to the Tank
PlayerController, and I think just above BeginPlay() I'm going to pop that in. Immediately
change your class name, because otherwise it ain't going to work.
So there you go, from TankPlayerController! Now, let's look at this code and see if it's
reasonable. We are calling Super, we are asking if a Pawn came
in. We're doing the same thing about (PossessedTank),
or you could call it ControlledTank but it's actually the same thing,
and then, we are delegating out to a method not in the TankAI
Controller but in the TankPlayerController, called OnPossessed, or
shall we say OnControlledTankDeath. It doesn't really
matter, Possessed is OK and that's absolutely fine! So that's good! Now what we need
to do is declare this SetPawn method, so let's just do that! It's all very
well putting it into the C++, but it also needs to be here in the header
file. So that's done using VisualStudio's tool, that was pretty handy!
Then, the other thing we need to do is create this ATankPlayerControler::OnPossessed
TankDeath method. I'm gong to put it straight under here, so I can see what I'm doing.
It's a pretty simple method, it's void like this,
and what we're going to call inside that method is just what I gave you in the hints,
it is this simple call to StartSpectatingOnly.
Now if
we could we'd do this without a method, methods with just one line of code in them aren't great, but in order
to provide a delegate like this, you do actually need to do this. Now it's going to
complain about ATank, because currently we don't have ATank included.
Now that we are having the TankPlayerController process
some of these multicast
delegates, from the tank, we are going to hash include the "Tank.h".
OK, so let's have a look! Let's see if that will compile! I've just done
exactly the same thing on... Oh, there's one thing that won't compile,
which is OnPossessedTankDeath. I have not declared, so let me declare that now!
It's going to be slow,
then I'm just going to do it manually. I'm going to put it in the public of the Tank
PlayerController header file.
Remember it needs to be a UFUNCTION.
OK, so that was never going to work.
Let's just see if we can compile now.
Now while we try and compile, let me keep you up to date with what we're doing with the PlayerController header file. We've
done just this, and the in PlayerController C++
file we've done a bunch of stuff. Remember you can always go to the course's
GitHub to see all of the changes. OK, how are we doing
with this compilation? It must be nearly there! Compile failed! That's not abnormal when you make a load of
changes. Let's see what's wrong! So on line 25 we have an error
in the TankPlayerController header file. So that sounds like a simple thing missing a semicolon.
Rookie error there, happens to all of us.
So recompiling again now, with roughly the same code,
and then, hopefully, by the end of that, we'll have completed challenges 1,
2, and 3.
So how would we know? Well I need to get blasted, don't I, so
that we know that once I'm blasted that I'm in spectator mode. I'm still able to
control this tank, but now look, when I got this hit the second time, I've
slightly jarringly dived out into a spectator only mode but I cannot control my
tank, which is exactly what we wanted. Let's just see that happen again!
Now I think, in this section, we haven't got room. I'm trying to keep this section to 100 lectures
for various reasons, including the fact that you guys will probably start losing motivation. There is
no point really now in me putting up a popup menu here,
because we're going to do that type of thing in the next section, and you can
come back and make the changes to Battle Tank, once you've learned how to do it in the next section
and that allows me to teach you these things only once. You'll see more about that in the end of section
video. So that's done, this DetacthFromPlayerController and
startSpectatingOnly() all done! Now let's use some noise on the landscape
briefly. So this is going to turn out to be a slightly longer video for you,
and I think what I'll do, to prevent it becoming tiring, is just split it over two parts.
So I have done numbers 1, 2, and 3 in this challenge so far.
In the next video, we're going to put some noise in the landscape, make the Auto
Mortars damageable, and also do a little bit of code checking. So
I will see you there!